---------------------Jenkins----------------------------

ContinuousIntegration: It is the combination of build and test.

ContinuousIntegration= ContinuousBuild + ContinuousTest

CI server:

Here build and test are performed in a single CI server.

Continuous delivery/deployment:

Continuous delivery is making it available for deployment. Anytime a new build artifact is available, the artifact is automatically placed in the desired environment and deployed.

Continuous deployment is when you commit your code then it gets automatically tested, build and deploy on the prod servver.

Diff between Continuous delivery and continuous deployment:
In Continuous delivery, the code deployment to prod server is done manually where as in continuous deployment it is done automatically.

Types of pipelines in jenkins:
There are 3 types of pipelines:
1. Freestyle
2. Declarative
3. Scripted

Stages invoved in pipeline:
1. Code
2. Build
3. Test
4. Deploy

Alternatives to nexus are s3, jfrog.

Snapshots: It will store commits 
Releases: Code that we are going to put in production server.

Jenkins:
It is an open source free automation tool that is used to build, test and deploy the code. It is written in java by kohsuke kawaguchi runs on windows, linux and mac os.
1. It is platform independent tool.
2. Can be integrated with third party tools.
3. It consists of multiple plugins. we can write our own plugins.
4. Used to detect faults in the development.
5. It will monitor the code.
6. Supports master and slave concept.(To test application on mutliple environments[dev, test, prod]).
7. Speed release cycle.
8. Configuration and setup is easy.

Whenever developers write the code, we integrate all the code of all developers at any point of time and build, test, and deliver/deploy it to the client. This is called CI/CD.

Alternatives for jenkins:
1. Bamboo
2. circle CI
3. Team city
4. Git lab
5. Buddy
6. AWS codepipeline
7. Azure pipeline

Jenkins setup:

Step 1: Getting jenkins repo(jenkins.io)
a) sudo wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/jenkins.repo https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.repo
b) sudo rpm --import https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key

Step 2: Install java
amazon-linux-extras install java-openjdk11 -y

Step 3: Install jenkins
yum install jenkins -y

Step 4: Starting jenkins service
systemctl start jenkins.service
systemctl status jenkins.service

Linked Jobs: one job is linked with another job
Upstream and downstream jobs:
For job1, job2 and job3 are downstream jobs
For job2, job1 is upstream and job3 is downstream
For job3, job1,job2 are up stream jobs

Different types to implement slave and server in jenkins:
1. Label
2. SSH

How to connect to server directly if we lost pem file?
A) 1. Can generate a key inside a server
      Command: ssh-keygen - It will generate 2 keys
	i)private key - used to connect with the server
	ii)public key - used to communicate with other servers
How to connect to server directly if we lost pem file and unable to login into the server?
A) We can using existing pem file or can generate new pem file.

CRON Job: schedule the jobs that need to be run at a particular intervals.
* - minutes (0-59)
* - hour(0-23)
* - day of month(1-31)
* - month(1-12)
* - day of week(0-6)(sunday=0)

POLL SCM: Used to schedule the jobs in jenkins (custom time)- whenever new commit is made then it will build the code

Build periodically: It will build the code automatically on scheduled time even if there are changes or not in the code.

Webhooks: Developer commits the code in git then jenkins triggers the build automatically.







